# Data_Incubator_Project
I propose to work on a project that I think if of high importance right now. Climate change has been a prominent threat to the existence of life as we know it. Despite the available scientific evidence, the public’s understanding of climate change and its effects is minimal. My plan for this project is to gather, analyze and present as much data as possible on climate change and its effects on agricultural productivity, incidence of epidemics and occurrence of extreme weather phenomena. In addition, I would propose to generate a predictive model that could help identify climate-resilient crops. 
To get the first impression of climate change and its effects, I downloaded data from the Environmental Protection Agency, Food Agricultural Organization and World Bank and explored the possible link between climate change and agricultural productivity. The draft exploratory analysis I made (figures attached) indicate that, in general, there has been a rise in the global annual temperature from the year 1900 to 2014. Specifically, from mid-1970’s onwards, the anomaly seems to be higher. I also tried to explore the global anomaly in precipitation and noted that there hasn’t been a notable increase or decrease in precipitation, though the data indicate higher variability. 
Another interesting observation came from the comparison of the global population growth and global crop Production data. I extracted three crop species (maize, potatoes and wheat) out of the complete data and saw that, on average, from 1960 to 2014, the global production of these crops has been rising. On the other hand, the global population growth has seen a steep increase. It’d be interesting to observe how the data looks when we normalize the global crop production with population growth. 
In this project, I propose to make a detailed analysis to answer the following questions:
1.	Is there a significant correlation between climate change and agricultural productivity?
2.	Can we provide a predictive model to identify climate-resilient crops?
3.	Can we predict how different agro-ecological regions and ecosystems of the world respond to climate change?
4.	Is there a relationship between climate change and the incidence of epidemics?
